THE OUTCAST 
(c) 2005-2007 OBJECT Networks

GLICT Skinning Tips
----
Since The Outcast's version 0.3.8, GLICT shipped in The Outcast contains a basic skinning engine. Here's some instructions and tips. If you don't understand this, well, make the art and try to get someone on the forums to do the implementation for you.


1. INSTRUCTIONS

Each skin comes in a subfolder of the skins/ folder. So, it's like this:

* outcast/skins/yourskin

It should contain additional subfolders called window/ and button/, and an optional file called colors.txt. Both window/ and button/ should contain files tl.bmp, t.bmp, tr.bmp, l.bmp, c.bmp, r.bmp, bl.bmp, b.bmp and br.bmp. They stand for following sections of the rectangle that forms a button or a window, respectively: top left corner, top, top right, left, center, right, bottom left, bottom and bottom right. Please consult the provided skins to see the usage.

File colors.txt contains RGBA elements -- meaning in each line, put 4 numbers from 0-1. It contains following RGBA elements, in order of appearance:
* button text color
* highlighted button text color
* panel text color
* textbox text color
* window titlebar text color
* console colors: red, blue, yellow, orange, white, ltblue, green

Top, left, center, right, and bottom are repeated to fill the area they need to cover.

2. TIPS

Tip #1

SIMPLE: Don't make 'top' 8x8, make it 64x8. Don't make 'center' 3x3, make it 64x64.
COMPLICATED: Do not be conservative on dimensions of the repeated portions! In case they are too small, they will be repeated too often and framerate will drop more than if you'd simply give a big original file. So, it might be a better idea to tile it yourself, and then feed it to GLICT. 


Tip #2

SIMPLE: Don't make 'top' image 8x8, make it 8x1, don't make 'left' image 8x8, make it 1x8.
COMPLICATED: Keep the textbox borders small, preferably 1 or 2 on the shorter part.

Tip #3

SIMPLE: Keep top, topleft and topright of same height. Same for bottom. Keep left, topleft and bottomleft of same width. Same for right.
COMPLICATED: It's just meant to be that way: some images simply aren't planned to be of different sizes. Besides, it doesn't make much sense either; if you really want to do that, certainly the image editor you're using offers some sort of blending capabilities for images. Even the Most Simplest Picture And Image, Newbie's Tool (read capitals, please) includes this.

Tip #4

SIMPLE: Make height and width of your images divisable by 2.
COMPLICATED: GLICT puts text in the center of your skinned object. So what happens when your center is odd and not even, if it's not divisable by two? Then it tries to put it between some pixels. Computers don't really like that and OpenGL will probably screw things up - the text will, at least on some computers, get blurred in case bitmap font is used.  And the "simple" summary is actually wrong: the thing is that the total height and width of your skin have to be divisable by two. So sum up topheight and bottomheight, and they have to be divisable by two. (Other is on game designer.) Window is an exception to the rule, you should keep topheight really divisable by two since top is the same as titlebar.

